Let's write a test to make sure this optimistic and currency control stuff works as expected.
So here's the general idea.
Here's what we're going to test.
We're going to first create an instance of a ticket.
We're going to save the ticket to the database.
We're then going to fetch the ticket twice.
So we're going to fetch it two separate times.
Three essentially have two separate handles onto a ticket and they're both going to have some initial
version flags set to either zero or one, whatever the default is for the module that we just grabbed.
We're then going to make.
Two separate changes to the tickets we fetched.
When I say two separate.
I mean to say we're going to make one change to the first ticket.
We fetched another change to the second ticket we fetched.
We're then going to save the first fetched ticket and we're going to expect that that is going to work
as expected, because the first fetch ticket is going to have a version number equal to one or exactly
greater than whatever the initial ticket that we save to the database has or its version number.
So we're going to expect that the first save is going to work as expected.
We're then going to try to save the second.
Fetch ticket.
When we try to save the second fetch ticket, this thing is going to have an outdated version number
because when we saved the first fetch ticket, it will have incremented the version number inside of
our database.
So when we try to save the second one, we're going to expect to see some kind of error, something
that says, hey, you can't save this, you've got some out-of-date version number or something similar
to that.
So we're going to save the second fetch ticket and expect an heir.
That's the idea.
So let's get to it.
Step number one, create a ticket and save it.
They'll make a ticket using the ticket build method.
And I'll give this thing a title.
A price of five and then we are required to provide a user ID as well.
I'll just give ID.
One, two, three.
Next up, we're going to save that to our database.
So we'll do an a weight ticket save.
So now that ticket has been persisted into the database.
And in theory when we saved it, Mongoose, and more specifically, the update if current plugin should
have assigned some kind of version property to it.
So inside the database, there's now a record that says Here's a ticket as a version of zero or one,
again, whatever the default version number is.
So we're now going to fetch that ticket out of the database twice.
So I'll do a first ticket.
How about we call it first instance?
And that will be an O8 ticket defined by ID.
And we're going to find tickets ID.
Then second instance, a wait ticket find.
By ID.
Like so.
So now we're going to make a change to first instance and to second instance.
We'll then save the first instance, and that should work as expected, save the second one, and we
should see some kind of error.
So here's my change to both the tickets.
I'll say first instance.
I'll do a set and I'll update the price to ten.
You'll notice I'm once again getting an air right here, because when we do the fine by ID, we might
get back null as usual.
I'm going to put an exclamation on there because again, as usual, we really want TypeScript to just
not worry about that if we fail to find that ticket.
I actually do want to see an error so we can fix up our tests.
Then we'll do our second instance, exclamation.
We'll set our price to 15.
So now here's the moment of truth.
We're going to attempt to save the first tickets.
So await first instance, exclamation dot, save.
And that should go off as expected.
Now we'll put down our second save right here and this one when we run.
It should result in an error.
Right now, we're just going to throw the save in and we'll expect to see an error inside of our tests
just to make sure that the test is working as expected and that in general, all this stuff is working
as expected around this versioning stuff.
So I'll do an await second instance, exclamation save.
And that's it.
So let's save this.
I'm not going to go back over to my terminal.
And I have closed the test suite for my ticket service, so I'm going to go into my tickets directory
and do an MPM run test inside of here.
Yet.
We're going to see a lot of different tests run because we're also doing all of our route handlers and
whatnot.
I do see the tests for my ticket stuff though.
It looks like I got one failure here.
I'm going to scroll up a little bit.
And there we go.
Exactly what we wanted to see.
No matching document found for ID, blah blah blah with a version number of zero.
When we're trying to update Rice and you'll notice this error came from the second save.
So the second instance right here has an outdated version property has the incorrect version property.
Now, even though this version property is outdated, it still kind of simulates what's going to happen
inside of our actual application, where we might eventually try to save a document with a version that's
too far into the future.
So this right here is excellent and means that this optimistic concurrency control stuff is working
as expected.
So now we really just have to fix up the test and make sure that we somehow say that we expect this
thing to go wrong.
Now, just, you know, just does have some built in matters to help us expect that something is going
to throw an air.
It has a measure of expect some function to throw.
So we could do that in theory.
But I found that there are some interop issues between Gest and TypeScript.
So I found that this expectation right here does not quite work as expected.
If we wanted to really do this, we would do something like.
This like so.
But like I said, I found that just doesn't work out too well with this.
If you're watching this at some point in time in the future, perhaps you can see this actually work
as expected.
But again, I have not actually gotten this to work.
So instead, we're going have to get just a little bit creative here.
So because we do expect this thing to throw.
We're going to put in.
A try around that.
We're going to put in a catch.
And we're going to expect to get into catch.
And if we get into catch, we're going to immediately return.
And because we should be entering the couch right there, right after, I'm going to throw a manually.
So throw new air and I'll say should not reach this point.
So if our test is working as expected, when we run this line of code right here, we're going to throw
an error that's going to cause us to enter the catch statement.
We should return automatically.
And when we return, we will not get to that error.
If this line of code does not throw, then we're going to skip over the catch and we're going to hit
the error.
That's going to throw the error and that's going to cause our test to fail.
Now, one other little gotcha, if you're going to use this pattern right here, just cannot really
figure out the async await situation here.
It can't really figure out when our tests are all done when we call return right here.
So to just help type to help just out, we have to receive a callback to our actual test function right
here of done.
Done is a function that we should invoke manually if we want to specifically tell just that we are done
with our test and that should not expect anything else to go on with our test.
So.
Right when we return right here, we're going to also call Don and just very officially tell just that's
it.
Test complete.
Don't worry about anything else inside this test.
So again, all this stuff right here is just to work around the fact that right now, just with that
to throw matter doesn't quite work as expected.
Okay, so let's save this and see how we're doing.
So let's flip back over.
And it looks like everything is passing.
Now let's run just our ticket test file by itself, just to save ourselves a little bit of time here
so I can hit W to enter the watch menu, then p to enter in the name of the file.
I want to run.
And we want to run the ticket test file.
So I'll.
Let's put in a pattern of ticket.
Oh, they all say ticket inside of it, I guess.
I guess I'm going have to use a little bit more.
Yeah, I have to use a little bit more specific.
Better than that.
Let's do tickets test.
That's better.
Now we're just running that one test.
Very good.
And as usual, let's try to make it fail just one time here.
So I'll try commenting out the second instance.
Save I'll save the file.
And there we go.
Looks like if it doesn't throw an error, we do in fact end up getting to that error at the bottom.
And the tests fail.
So it looks good.
So this is pretty fantastic stuff.
This means that we can now be really sure that when we save a record, if we save it successfully,
we are saving it essentially in the correct order.
And we're not working on some kind of stale data.
And in the instance of our order service when we're processing events, this is also going to make sure
that we are processing events in the correct order.
Now there is one other very quick test I would like to write in the next video.
So quick pause right here and I'll see you in just a minute.